trezor-faq/eshop.rst, before:

Ordering & Shipping
===================


How to buy a TREZOR?
--------------------

**TREZOR Shop (shop.trezor.io) is the #1 place to purchase a TREZOR device**.

Orders at **TREZOR Shop** are typically processed the same or the next working day after receiving your payment.

To make a purchase:

1. Select the color of your TREZOR and click "Buy now".
2. You will be taken to the Shopping Cart. If you wish to add more products, you can do it right there by changing the amounts and hitting "Recalculate".
3. Optionally switch DHL Express shipping to Standard Shipping by clicking the Standard Shipping tile below the cart.
4. Proceed to entering your address and confirm with "Send order".
5. You will be taken to a page with your bitcoin payment instructions.
6. Once the payment is confirmed through the Bitcoin network, we'll start to process your order and let you know when your order has been shipped.


Can I order a TREZOR from Amazon?
---------------------------------
Sure, Another great place for customers is `amazon.com <https://www.amazon.com/s/%3Daps&field-keywords=trezor>`_. 


How can I pay?
--------------

We accept **Bitcoin** or **Credit cards** as a payment method at `TREZOR Shop <https://shop.trezor.io>`_.
Our product prices are fixed in EUR and converted to BTC at the Bitcoinpay exchange rate.

.. note:: Please do not use exchange withdrawals to pay for the order! We have experienced some issue with such payments as exchanges often deduct the transaction fee from the withdrawal amount and also process the payments in bulk once per period of time, therefore your order can get cancelled due to **insufficient amount** or because they are **paid after timeout**


I don't have any bitcoins. Can I pay with credit card, PayPal or wire transfer?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yes! At the moment you can pay either with BTC or Credit card. However getting bitcoins is not difficult anymore!

1. Buy from local traders:

- `LocalBitcoins.com <https://localbitcoins.com/?ch=4cp1>`_
- `Mycelium Local Trader app <https://mycelium.com/localtrader>`_

2. ATM:

- `CoinAtmRadar.com <https://coinatmradar.com/>`_

3. Buy from exchange:

- `Coinmama.com <https://www.coinmama.com/?ref=Satoshilabs>`_
- `Coinbase.com <https://www.coinbase.com/join/52ff49fe40448fb26d00002a>`_
- `Coinjar.com <https://Coinjar.com>`_
- `Expresscoin.com <https://Expresscoin.com>`_

.. note:: If you buy bitcoin from exchange, please transfer coins to some standard wallet first (Mycelium, Electrum, Jaxx, Copay..) and then process the payment from there. Do not use the withdrawal from exchange as a payment for your order please.

4. Finding other means of exchange in your area

- `HowToBuyBitcoins.info <https://howtobuybitcoins.info/>`_

`More ways to buy a TREZOR <#how-to-buy-a-trezor>`_.


How will you know that I have actually made the payment?
--------------------------------------------------------

Each order is assigned a unique payment address. Once your payment is validated by the Bitcoin network, we'll send you a Payment confirmation.


My order got cancelled, why is that?
------------------------------------

In general the orders are valid for 24 hours. Our customers sometimes create more orders at the same time without even noticing it. Please log into your `user account at TREZOR Shop <https://shop.trezor.io/user/profile>`_ and check your orders. It is possible you have multiple orders created at about the same time and one of them is paid, other(s) are cancelled. In such case you don't need to worry, your paid order will be shipped as usual and the notification email is regarding the other order(s). You can compare the order token in your user account and notification email.

Are you sure you created and paid only one order and it still got cancelled? This can happen for various reasons:

**Insufficient amount:**

The service you used to send the payment deducts fees from the final amount (typically exchange services) and we received insufficient amount. In such case you need to contact our support and request refund.

**Paid after timeout:**

Currently our system accepts payments if received within 3 hours since the payment request. If the transaction is accepted later, you need to contact our support and request refund.

**Unconfirmed transaction:**

It can also happen that you sent the payment transaction with low transaction fee and it has not been confirmed. Please check the payment and eventually create another order.


Can I change my order?
----------------------

**For an order placed but not paid:**

Simply leave it unpaid and create a new order as you desire. All unpaid orders are automatically canceled after 24 hours.

**For an order already paid but not shipped yet:**

Contact our support via `Support Center <https://trezor.io/support>`_ to help you change your order.


What is in the package?
-----------------------

Your TREZOR will be delivered with a micro USB cable and a user manual. You can check more details `here <../trezor-user/whatsinthebox.html>`_.


Do you ship to my country?
--------------------------

If your country is not listed in the Delivery Address Form, let us know via `Support Center <https://trezor.io/support>`_.
We will try to include it as soon as possible.


How long does it take you to handle the order?
----------------------------------------------

We process orders with the DHL Express shipping every working day and with the standard shipping 3 times a week (Monday, Wednesday, Friday). If an order is made before 10:00 CET/CEST on the shipping day, we ship the order the same day.


What are the shipping options?
------------------------------

**DHL Express shipping**

Default shipping option. DHL Express shipping which costs $29 and it's fully traceable.
Delivery time is usually 2-5 business days.

**Standard worldwide shipping**

You can also choose Standard shipping for $10 and the traceability is limited.
Delivery time may vary between 5 days to 6 weeks depending on your location and your national post.



Where can I follow my order (get a tracking number)?
----------------------------------------------------

By logging into `TREZOR Shop <https://shop.trezor.io/user/login/>`_ and clicking order creation date on the My Orders page you can see the details of your order. Your user login have been created when you first purchased your TREZOR.

We will notify you of any significant change to your order by email as well.

You can track the parcel sent via DHL `here <http://www.dhl.com/en/express/tracking.html>`_. Parcel sent via Standard shipping `here <https://www.ceskaposta.cz/en/trackandtrace>`_ and when it leaves the country of origin then continue to the website of postal service in your country.


How do I know when my TREZOR is shipped?
----------------------------------------

You can follow the status of your order via your `TREZOR Shop User Profile <https://shop.trezor.io/user/login>`_ which has been created after your first order. When your device is shipped we will notify you by email. Package leaves our warehouse within 48 hours latest (we are doing our best to shorten this period of time as much as possible) after receiving your payment.


Can you deliver one order to multiple addresses?
------------------------------------------------

We can't split orders already made, however you can create as many orders with different addresses under your TREZOR Shop User Profile.


My package didn't arrive yet. What can be the reason?
-----------------------------------------------------

As we mentioned before we never postpone the shipping without prior customer notification. If there is a delay even before the actual shipping, it might be caused by providing insufficient information required by the shipping company. In such case, our Customer Support team contacted you and requested the missing information already.

After leaving the country of origin, the parcel travels to the foreign country where it is accepted at customs. This is where most of the delays actually happen and it is unfortunate because the delivery will appear in the customer's post tracking system only after it is released by the customs. For example, we have one delivery which was held by US customs office for nearly 6 weeks.

In rare cases, when choosing standard shipping, your package may be lost during the transport. It is very unfortunate but it can happen. In such case, we consider it as a **lost package** and we start the **investigation**.


How do I recognize my package got lost?
---------------------------------------

The investigation can be initiated if your package meets at least one of the following criteria:

- if package does not leave country of origin according to it's tracking in 10 days
- if package does not appear on foreign tracking in 21 days
- if the last update on foreign tracking is older than 10 days


How does the investigation work and how long does it take?
----------------------------------------------------------

Investigation process takes up to 6 weeks since your request due to the processing time of post office in the country of origin. Communication between you and us is essential during the investigation period to keep information on delivery status up to date. 


I want to start the investigation. What should I do?
----------------------------------------------------

In that case we will need you to contact us via `Support Center <https://trezor.io/support>`_ to initiate the investigation process.

Commit message:

Shipping time and delays in December

trezor-faq/eshop.rst, after:

Ordering & Shipping
===================


How to buy a TREZOR?
--------------------

**TREZOR Shop (shop.trezor.io) is the #1 place to purchase a TREZOR device**.

Orders at **TREZOR Shop** are typically processed the same or the next working day after receiving your payment.

To make a purchase:

1. Select the color of your TREZOR and click "Buy now".
2. You will be taken to the Shopping Cart. If you wish to add more products, you can do it right there by changing the amounts and hitting "Recalculate".
3. Optionally switch DHL Express shipping to Standard Shipping by clicking the Standard Shipping tile below the cart.
4. Proceed to entering your address and confirm with "Send order".
5. You will be taken to a page with your bitcoin payment instructions.
6. Once the payment is confirmed through the Bitcoin network, we'll start to process your order and let you know when your order has been shipped.


Can I order a TREZOR from Amazon?
---------------------------------
Sure, Another great place for customers is `amazon.com <https://www.amazon.com/s/%3Daps&field-keywords=trezor>`_. 


How can I pay?
--------------

We accept **Bitcoin** or **Credit cards** as a payment method at `TREZOR Shop <https://shop.trezor.io>`_.
Our product prices are fixed in EUR and converted to BTC at the Bitcoinpay exchange rate.

.. note:: Please do not use exchange withdrawals to pay for the order! We have experienced some issue with such payments as exchanges often deduct the transaction fee from the withdrawal amount and also process the payments in bulk once per period of time, therefore your order can get cancelled due to **insufficient amount** or because they are **paid after timeout**


I don't have any bitcoins. Can I pay with credit card, PayPal or wire transfer?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yes! At the moment you can pay either with BTC or Credit card. However getting bitcoins is not difficult anymore!

1. Buy from local traders:

- `LocalBitcoins.com <https://localbitcoins.com/?ch=4cp1>`_
- `Mycelium Local Trader app <https://mycelium.com/localtrader>`_

2. ATM:

- `CoinAtmRadar.com <https://coinatmradar.com/>`_

3. Buy from exchange:

- `Coinmama.com <https://www.coinmama.com/?ref=Satoshilabs>`_
- `Coinbase.com <https://www.coinbase.com/join/52ff49fe40448fb26d00002a>`_
- `Coinjar.com <https://Coinjar.com>`_
- `Expresscoin.com <https://Expresscoin.com>`_

.. note:: If you buy bitcoin from exchange, please transfer coins to some standard wallet first (Mycelium, Electrum, Jaxx, Copay..) and then process the payment from there. Do not use the withdrawal from exchange as a payment for your order please.

4. Finding other means of exchange in your area

- `HowToBuyBitcoins.info <https://howtobuybitcoins.info/>`_

`More ways to buy a TREZOR <#how-to-buy-a-trezor>`_.


How will you know that I have actually made the payment?
--------------------------------------------------------

Each order is assigned a unique payment address. Once your payment is validated by the Bitcoin network, we'll send you a Payment confirmation.


My order got cancelled, why is that?
------------------------------------

In general the orders are valid for 24 hours. Our customers sometimes create more orders at the same time without even noticing it. Please log into your `user account at TREZOR Shop <https://shop.trezor.io/user/profile>`_ and check your orders. It is possible you have multiple orders created at about the same time and one of them is paid, other(s) are cancelled. In such case you don't need to worry, your paid order will be shipped as usual and the notification email is regarding the other order(s). You can compare the order token in your user account and notification email.

Are you sure you created and paid only one order and it still got cancelled? This can happen for various reasons:

**Insufficient amount:**

The service you used to send the payment deducts fees from the final amount (typically exchange services) and we received insufficient amount. In such case you need to contact our support and request refund.

**Paid after timeout:**

Currently our system accepts payments if received within 3 hours since the payment request. If the transaction is accepted later, you need to contact our support and request refund.

**Unconfirmed transaction:**

It can also happen that you sent the payment transaction with low transaction fee and it has not been confirmed. Please check the payment and eventually create another order.


Can I change my order?
----------------------

**For an order placed but not paid:**

Simply leave it unpaid and create a new order as you desire. All unpaid orders are automatically canceled after 24 hours.

**For an order already paid but not shipped yet:**

Contact our support via `Support Center <https://trezor.io/support>`_ to help you change your order.


What is in the package?
-----------------------

Your TREZOR will be delivered with a micro USB cable and a user manual. You can check more details `here <../trezor-user/whatsinthebox.html>`_.


Do you ship to my country?
--------------------------

If your country is not listed in the Delivery Address Form, let us know via `Support Center <https://trezor.io/support>`_.
We will try to include it as soon as possible.


How long does it take you to handle the order?
----------------------------------------------

We process orders with the DHL Express shipping every working day and with the standard shipping 3 times a week (Monday, Wednesday, Friday - in December and especially before Christmas, there may be some delays due to the higher demand for our product). If an order is paid before 10:00 CET/CEST on the shipping day, we usually ship the order the same day. Otherwise, the estimated shipping is within two business days after the payment is confirmed. 


What are the shipping options?
------------------------------

**DHL Express shipping**

Default shipping option. DHL Express shipping which costs $29 and it's fully traceable.
Delivery time is usually 2-5 business days.

**Standard worldwide shipping**

You can also choose Standard shipping for $10 and the traceability is limited.
Delivery time may vary between 5 days to 6 weeks depending on your location and your national post.



Where can I follow my order (get a tracking number)?
----------------------------------------------------

By logging into `TREZOR Shop <https://shop.trezor.io/user/login/>`_ and clicking order creation date on the My Orders page you can see the details of your order. Your user login have been created when you first purchased your TREZOR.

We will notify you of any significant change to your order by email as well.

You can track the parcel sent via DHL `here <http://www.dhl.com/en/express/tracking.html>`_. Parcel sent via Standard shipping `here <https://www.ceskaposta.cz/en/trackandtrace>`_ and when it leaves the country of origin then continue to the website of postal service in your country.


How do I know when my TREZOR is shipped?
----------------------------------------

You can follow the status of your order via your `TREZOR Shop User Profile <https://shop.trezor.io/user/login>`_ which has been created after your first order. When your device is shipped we will notify you by email. Package leaves our warehouse within 48 hours latest (we are doing our best to shorten this period of time as much as possible) after receiving your payment.


Can you deliver one order to multiple addresses?
------------------------------------------------

We can't split orders already made, however you can create as many orders with different addresses under your TREZOR Shop User Profile.


My package didn't arrive yet. What can be the reason?
-----------------------------------------------------

As we mentioned before we never postpone the shipping without prior customer notification. If there is a delay even before the actual shipping, it might be caused by providing insufficient information required by the shipping company. In such case, our Customer Support team contacted you and requested the missing information already.

After leaving the country of origin, the parcel travels to the foreign country where it is accepted at customs. This is where most of the delays actually happen and it is unfortunate because the delivery will appear in the customer's post tracking system only after it is released by the customs. For example, we have one delivery which was held by US customs office for nearly 6 weeks.

In rare cases, when choosing standard shipping, your package may be lost during the transport. It is very unfortunate but it can happen. In such case, we consider it as a **lost package** and we start the **investigation**.


How do I recognize my package got lost?
---------------------------------------

The investigation can be initiated if your package meets at least one of the following criteria:

- if package does not leave country of origin according to it's tracking in 10 days
- if package does not appear on foreign tracking in 21 days
- if the last update on foreign tracking is older than 10 days


How does the investigation work and how long does it take?
----------------------------------------------------------

Investigation process takes up to 6 weeks since your request due to the processing time of post office in the country of origin. Communication between you and us is essential during the investigation period to keep information on delivery status up to date. 


I want to start the investigation. What should I do?
----------------------------------------------------

In that case we will need you to contact us via `Support Center <https://trezor.io/support>`_ to initiate the investigation process.
